## Step 2: Responding with HTML
Admittedly, sending a single string 'Hello World' to a browser window is not very useful.  It is, however, worth it to see how much a web framework does for you.  All we had to do in our `server.py` file was define a **path** (`'/'`) and a response (`'Hello World!'`).

Rather than return a single string, let's respond with some HTML.  HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is one of the main languages of the web and it is used to define the _structure_ and _content_ of a 'page'.  Since HTML is just text, you might be tempted to do this:

```python
@app.route("/")
def hello():
	return "<html><body><h1>Hello World!</h1></body></html>"
```

Try it.  You will need to stop and restart your program after making the changes.

> Why is it necessary to stop and restart the program?  It may or may not be obvious - but it's good to ask yourself these questions.

Did it work?  It should have.  But it's not very pretty and HTML pages can get _very long_, so this approach is not going to scale very well.  Ideally, we want to separate the HTML into its own file so it's easier to read and maintain.  Again, this is so fundamental it's already built into Flask. First of all we need to tell Flask to use the ```render_template``` component which is built-in. We need to add this to the end of the first line of ```server.py```:

```python
from flask import Flask, render_template
```

Now create a new folder in your workspace called `templates`.  Check the last step if you don't remember how. Create a new file inside the `templates` folder called `index.html`, with the following content:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Motivational Posters</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Motivational Posters</h1>
  <p>By the end of today I'll have a fully-functioning website!</p>
</body>
</html>
```

Now change the code in `server.py` to the following:
```python
@app.route("/")
def hello():
	return render_template('index.html')
```

Save the changes and re-run the program.  You might be wondering what this all means and why the file is called `index.html`.  If you're not wondering that, then you should be - unless you know already!

Without going too far into the technology behind Flask and templating systems, it's sufficient to understand that `render_template` looks for a file within the 'templates' directory called `index.html`, loads it, and returns the contents as text (in this case, the text is HTML).

[Previous step](/steps/1.md) | [Continue to Step 3](/steps/3.md)
