## Step 3: Adding some style

CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is the technology we use to define the layout and design of our websites (remember, HTML is for structure and content). Using CSS, we can elevate our website from just black text on a white background.

We are not looking to win any design awards here, just to demonstrate the principals of styling a website. To begin with, let's choose a background. Go to [Subtle Patterns](http://subtlepatterns.com) and choose any background that you like. It will help if your background is light not dark. Download the background you have chosen from the website and unzip it. 

Create a `static` folder in your workspace and an `images` folder inside `static` and add the background image to this. Choose the smaller file if there is a choice.

To set this as the background image of our website, we can add some CSS directly to the `index.html` file by adding a `style` attribute to the `<body>` tag:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Motivational Posters</title>
</head>
<body style="background-image: url(/static/images/ricepaper_v3.png)">
  <h1>Motivational Posters</h1>
  <p>By tonight I'll have a fully-functioning website!</p>
</body>
</html>
```

In the above code, ```ricepaper_v3.png``` is just an example file - use the file that you picked here.
Save the file, reload the page and have a look at it in the browser.

The CSS we just added tells the browser to render the **body** of our page - i.e. everything that's visible on the screen - with the specified background image.  Once upon a time, all CSS was added directly inline in the HTML like this.  However, as with the previous step, this is going to be difficult to read and maintain.  We want to put all of our styles in a separate file (or files).

Create a folder `css` inside the `static` folder.  Create a file called `application.css` inside `static/css`.  We will put *all* of our styling instructions in this file, so please remove the `style` attribute added to `index.html` in the previous step.

Add the following to `static/css/application.css`:

```css
body {
  background-image: url(../images/ricepaper_v3.png)
}
```

Obviously, you'll need to substitute `ricepaper_v3.png` if you chose a different background.

You can interpret this CSS code as being the following instruction to the browser: *render any `body` element on the page using the background image found at the URL `/images/ricepaper_v3.png`*. (In the case of `body`, there should be only one element on the page.)

Refresh the browser now.  Did it work?  Did you expect it to work?  It doesn't matter whether you were right or wrong - what matters is how you use that outcome to progress.  Take a few moments to consider the changes we just made and how they might have effected the outcome.

The answer is that the browser doesn't know anything about `static/css/application.css`.  Why would it?  It's our responsibility to tell the browser about this external stylesheet.  Fortunately, that's another fundamental part of the way the web works and it's as simple as adding a new element to the `<head>` element of our HTML:

```html
<head>
  <link href="/static/css/application.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
  <title>Motivational Posters</title>
</head>
```

[Previous step](/steps/2.md) | [Continue to Step 4](/steps/4.md)
